# PriNCe-data-utils
Data tables and utilities to construct the database file for PriNCe

The [PriNCe](https://github.com/joheinze/PriNCe) UHECR propagation code requires tabulated data for photon fields, photo-nuclear and photo-hadronic interactions. This collection of utilities, mainly the jupyter notebook `construct_prince_database.ipynb`, will generate the database file in HDF5 format from various sources. To extend the database one can follow the implementation and extend the file with custom data. 

A second database file is generated by `make_particle_dict.py`

These tools were developed and used mainly in [Heinze et al., Astrophys.J. 873 (2019)](https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/ab05ce)

## Requirements

This is a light pure python code without specific requirements to the architecture.

Dependencies:

- [*PriNCe* propagation code](https://github.com/joheinze/PriNCe)
- python-3.7 or later
- particletools
- numpy
- scipy
- pandas
- astropy
- six
- h5py
- jupyter notebook or jupyter lab

## Usage

1. Make sure the dependencies are installed `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Launch with jupyter notebook|lab `construct_prince_database.ipynb`. The notebook generates an HDF database file that can be copied to prince-dir/prince_cr/data folder.
3. To create a new nuclide/particle property database process the notebook `construct_particle_nuclide_database.ipynb`. Then copy the file `particle_data.ppo` to prince-dir/prince_cr/data folder.

## Experimenting with data

Some example/debugging notebooks used for cross-checking and visualizing data are located in the notebooks directory. Have a look.

## Citation

If you are using this code in your work, please cite:

*A new view on Auger data and cosmogenic neutrinos in light of different nuclear disintegration and air-shower models*  
J. Heinze, A. Fedynitch, D. Boncioli and W. Winter  
[Astrophys.J. 873 (2019) no.1, 88](https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/ab05ce)

## Author

- Jonas Heinze
- Anatoli Fedynitch

## Copyright and license

Licensed under BSD 3-Clause License, see (LICENSE)
